In this module we had to look at NoSQL and especially mongodb of course. Now NoSQL databases,
mongodb is just an alternative to SQL databases, it follows a different philosophy.
You have no strict schemas which you do have in SQL and you have fewer relations,
you don't split your data across dozens of tables
instead you work with things like embedding data or using some references or even mixing the two concepts
as you saw in this module too,
so in general you've got way more flexibility
and since you can store the data in the format you are fetching it in,
you often can write a bit simpler queries because data already has the format you need it in.
When working with mongodb,
you should use the official mongodb driver and then you got a lot of useful commands like insert
one, find, update one, delete one and so on which make all these crud operations, crud stands for create,
read, update and delete
very simple.
Now check out the official docs or my full mongodb course to learn all about the available operations,
how you can configure them, which operators like $in which you saw in this module,
so all these things which you can use. You can learn about that because indeed mongodb offers enough
content for an entire course
and this is of course not the idea behind this course, it should stay a nodejs course. Now it's also worth
pointing out that all the operations are promise based and therefore creating more complex chains
as we did it
where you have this first command and then the second command is pretty easy and also pretty easy to read.
So overall NoSQL in mongodb is very popular especially in combination with nodejs because
you work with javascript objects anyways and because it's very fast and therefore it's definitely worth
checking out
and I will also stick to
mongodb for the rest of this course, though
I also want to mention that you can of course use MySQL.
Ultimately it always depends on your preferences and the requirements of your application and there
is a large gray area where neither of the two is wrong to use.